# INTAC endonuclease and phosphatase modules have distinct roles in transcription

Primary sequencing data and BigWig files are deposited at the GEO depository: GSE223265.



**ChIP-Rx data analysis**

The paired-end ChIP-Rx reads trimmed using Trim Galore v0.6.6 (https://www.bioinformatics.babraham.ac.uk/projects/trim_galore/) were aligned to the human hg19 and mouse mm10 assemblies using Bowtie v2.3.5.1 with default parameters (Langmead and Salzberg, 2012). We used SAMtools v1.9 (Li et al., 2009) and Picard v2.23.3 (https://broadinstitute.github.io/picard/) to remove all unmapped reads, low mapping quality reads (MAPQ < 30), and PCR duplicates. The number of spike-in mm10 reads counted by SAMtools v1.9 was used to calculate the normalization factor alpha = 1e6/mm10_count (Li et al., 2009). Normalized bigwig files, heatmaps, and metaplots were generated using deeptools v3.5.0 (Ramirez et al., 2016). 


**PRO-seq data analysis**

The paired-end PRO-seq reads were trimmed by Trim Galore v0.6.6 (https://www.bioinformatics.babraham.ac.uk/projects/trim_galore/) and fastp v0.21.0 (Chen et al., 2018b), and ribosomal RNA reads were removed using Bowtie v2.3.5.1 (Langmead and Salzberg, 2012). Resulting reads were aligned to hg19 or mm10 genome using Bowtie v2.3.5.1 with “--local --sensitive-local” (Langmead and Salzberg, 2012), and PCR duplicates were removed by umi_tools v1.0.1 (Smith et al., 2017). Calculation of normalization factor was performed in the same way as described in ChIP-Rx. Normalized PRO-seq signal was generated by deeptools v3.5.0 (Ramirez et al., 2016). To calculate pausing index and pause-release ratio (PRR), we defined the promoter as the region between TSS – 100 bp and TSS + 300 bp and the gene body as the region from 301 bp to 10 kb downstream of the TSS. PRR of each gene was calculated by the ratio of Pol II coverage between the gene body and promoter.

**TT-seq analysis**
Trimming of TT-seq reads was performed as described for ChIP-Rx, and the remaining reads were aligned to human hg19 and mouse mm10 assemblies using STAR v2.7.5c (Dobin et al., 2013). Low mapping quality reads and PCR duplicates were removed using SAMtools v1.9 (Li et al., 2009) and Picard v2.23.3 (https://broadinstitute.github.io/picard/). The TT-seq signal normalized by spike-in reads was generated by deeptools v3.5.0 (Ramirez et al., 2016). We then used Rsubread R package v2.0.1 (Liao et al., 2019) to perform gene expression quantification and DESeq2 R package v1.26.0 (Love et al., 2014) to perform differential expression analysis.
